When building graphical user interfaces you'll often want to use a resource such as a brush to paint the background of control. These resources can be defined in a single place and shared throughout the app. Let's go ahead and take a look in Visual Studio. OK. For demonstrating our shared resources. Let's go ahead and the solution explorer window and double click on the app XML file and I might go ahead and paste in some markup so you can pause the screen and enter that in yourself. You also have the option of copying this code from the back end state folder within this solution. So what we've done here is to find a rainbow brush to actually use this what we're going to do now is go to our main page Zemo to implement this. What we need to do is to go to our main page Zemo and update the attribute in our grid and we do this by changing the background to static resource and just specifying the name that we gave which is rainbow. Now we can save builder and run our application control F5 and there you go. You say a resource can be an instance of any object and to share it within an application you just define it in the app Zambo and give it a unique key and a set of elements property to apply that resource. We specify a static resource with the key and in that case Darcie was Rainbow. Now let's go ahead and take a look to see how to replace a control template. That's up next. OK so what we're going to do now is change the look and feel of our button so it has a dark glass effect. And we're going to do this by starting off with replacing a control template. Let's open up our app XML file and once again I'm going to be pacing in some code. This time it's going to be a large piece of code which also you can copy from our solution. And there's two main sections here. One where we are replacing the control template starting on line 20 and I'll go ahead and clean this up just a little bit so it looks like it's makes a little more sense. And the second section is for setting the style which starts on 9:54 you can define how a control looks by replacing its default template and that's what we're doing here. One of the most common resources is a style that can set multiple properties at once if a style has a unique key then it must be explicitly set. If it doesn't have a key then it will be automatically applied based on the target type. And over here our target type is the button and right below you can see we are setting the static resource to Dark Glass button which is what we named our control template appear on line 21. So if we save this build and run our application we see the difference in the look and feel of our button right now or just click anywhere else on the window and you'll see that it's not selected and it's a little bit clearer how the button has changed giving the appearance of a dark glass background and that's it.

