Universal Windows platform is Microsoft's latest technology solution to build applications for its windows suite of operating systems. The way it works is that it provides a guaranteed API layer across multiple device types. So that's pretty cool because you can essentially create a single app package that can be uploaded to a single store to be installed on a wide range of devices and these devices include Windows 10 Windows 10 mobile X-Box 1 and Microsoft Hollonds. Now what exactly is them all. Well essentially it's just Microsoft's variant of SML for describing a graphical user interface and at the bottom right hand corner of the screen here you can see a very simple snippet of Zemo. And it's pretty obvious how SML kind of inspired this syntax. Starts off with the tag name and then you see the attributes. Now how SAML and the universal Windows platform works together is that they provide lay out panels that adapt how they display their child controls to make the most of the device they are currently running on essentially. You can think of it as Windows apps equivalent to web page responsive design the built in Zemo panels includes relative panel just like we see here on the right hand side. That syntax itself lends itself to results such as what you see on the bottom right hand side. Then there is a stack panel. There's a grid which we just saw in the previous slide. Like this short code snippet and there is a variable sized wrapped grid. In addition to canvas in fact to get more information on these type of panels you can check out this web page right here which lays out a few simple examples quite nicely. One for router Padel and this is exactly the source that I used right here in my demonstration. And stack Padel and grid and so forth. Mastering your skill to write code using Zabol was pretty cool because it's ultimately great to know that you can create something once and it will work on a variety of applications. And the reason why is because XML and you W.P. provide visual state triggers to alter the layout based on dynamic changes such as a horizontal or vertical orientation of a tablet or another is just resizing a window. And no matter what that changes the application will know how to adjust your eye accordingly because of the XML we use on the UW people platform. And that's pretty cool.

